1 And five days later, Ananias the high priest arrived with some elders, and with an orator named Tertullus. And they informed the governor of what was reproached to Paul. 
2 And when the governor caused to bring Paul before the assembly, Tertullus began to accuse him with the following words. 
3 Very excellent Felix, our people enjoy great peace thanks to the quality of your leadership, and beneficial reforms are being made thanks to your foresight. We acknowledge it wholly and everywhere, and we are very grateful. 
4 And now we pray you to consider our concern. We will try to explain it in a few words, hoping not to seem tedious to you. 
5 We have found this pestilent man who has stirred up divisions among all the Jews throughout the world, and who is a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes. 
6 In his most provocative work, he has wanted to pollute the temple [of our God]. And it was at this time that we have arrested him, with the desire to judge him according to our law. 
7 But the commander of the Roman army Lysias came against us, and took him out of our hands with a great violence, and ordered the accusers to come before you.
8 And now, by questioning this man yourself, you can learn from him all the things we blame him for. 
9 Then the Jews joined in the accusation, affirming that these things were so. 
10 And when the governor beckoned to Paul to speak, he answered with the following words: Knowing that you have been judging this nation for many years, I speak with confidence to defend my cause. 
11 It has only been twelve days since I went to Jerusalem to worship, as you can make sure for yourself. [Now When Paul says that he was going to Jerusalem to worship, he means that he went there to convince the Jews who were to regroup there that Jesus is the Christ. Paul wants to save as much Jew as possible, before God destroys a large part of those who refused to believe when he destroys the temple that had been built to bear his name. Paul came to Jerusalem on the occasion of the celebration of the Christian Pentecost, which took place seven weeks after the Jewish Passover festival and therefore corresponds to the feast of the weeks prescribed in the law of Moses.] 
12 I was not found disputing with someone or stirring up a mob in the temple, or in the synagogues, or in the city. [Now Paul knows that the Lord Jesus is not interested in what a person is doing but only by the reasons why this person does something, and therefore Paul does not intend to prevent the Jews from doing what they do but only to explain to them that this is no longer what is most important.] 
13 Therefore they cannot prove that I am guilty of the things they accuse me of. 
14 But I acknowledge before you that I serve the God of my fathers in the way that they call a sect. [Now this new doctrine allows us to do whatever we want, provided that we take into consideration the well-being of others. And they call it a sect because there is no more obligation to do something in particular.] 
15 I believe in all that is written in the law and the prophets. And I have this hope in God, just as many of them, that there will be a resurrection of both the just and the unjust. 
16 That is why in all things I strive to act in such a way as to always have a good conscience towards God and men. 
17 Now after an absence of many years, I have come to do alms to my nation and to offer gifts. 
18 And it is at that moment that some Jews from Asia found me purified in the temple, without a crowd or tumult. [Indeed, Paul went to the temple with the aim of acting according to the law, after James asked him to behave in this way so as not to excite the crowds.] 
19 It is up to them to appear in front of you and accuse me with real evidence, if they have something against me. 
20 Or let them declare of which crime they have found me guilty when I stood before the council [at Jerusalem] to plead my cause. 
21 I have said only the following thing when I was standing among them: It is because of [my hope in] the resurrection of the dead that I am judged today before you. 
22 Now Felix already had a certain understanding of the new doctrine of which Paul was one of the teachers. And after he had heard these words, he postponed the assembly by saying: I will examine your case when Lysias the commander of the army comes. [Now Felix knows that the new doctrine explains that some of the commandments of the book of the law of Jews are not necessary to achieve what disciples call eternal life, but the exact definition of that notion of eternal life is unknown to everyone, even to those who teach the doctrine.] 
23 Then Felix ordered the centurion to keep Paul but to grant him certain freedoms, and to prevent none of his friends from serving him. 
24 And a few days later, Felix came with his wife Drusilla who was a Jewess, and he sent for Paul. And they listened to Paul who was speaking of the faith in Christ. 
25 And Paul was speaking of righteousness, and of self-control, and of the judgment to come, and that frightened Felix. And Felix said to Paul: Go your way for this time, and I will send for you when I have more time. 
26 And Felix was hoping that Paul would give him money. Therefore he sent for Paul frequently, under the pretext of wanting to talk with him. 
27 And two years passed in this way, and Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus. And desiring to please the Jews, Felix left Paul in prison.
